Final Reflections Journal
Student Name: Amro Elbahrawy

Course: SOEN 6841 (Software Project Management)

Journal URL: https://github.com/am-elbah/SOEN-6841-Journals.

Date: 4/6/2024

Overall Course Impact:
This course has shown me how a large part of how the business side of software engineering works, and that not everything is technical when it comes to software engineering. Proper management must be carefully done for a software product, or it will fail every time. Overall, this course has taught me a great deal and many topics will be very useful for me in what I am trying to pursue in the future.
The key insights that I learned would be learning more things about how software project management works such as: monitoring & control, how software closure is conducted, any work related to the product after releasing it does not count towards the project’s management and should not be considered when planning the schedule or the budget of the project, how software construction is done, and testing occurs everywhere throughout the project’s life cycle, including artifacts like requirements or design. The final thing is that the software project management life cycle is a predictive process where everything is done sequentially, like the waterfall model.

Application in Professional Life:
Since I do not have any work experience and I am not currently working now, I did not find a way to apply this in industry related scenarios, but I was asking friends who work in project management offices on how different they conduct specific software management life cycle tasks compared to what they learned during their academic life.
 I was also applying what I was learning from this course in previous software projects that were done for different purposes (web based, AI based, comparing previously done projects for software project management during my time in undergrad, software research). So, I would apply the software project management life cycle on some of these projects and see how each one differs from the other based on the different natures of these projects.



Peer Collaboration Insights:
Interacting with project managers who work in the industry in project management offices was probably the most informative thing for me in this project. Talking to people from different cultures (India, Middle East, Canada, USA) and how each of them do things similarly or differently has been extremely helpful.
Most of what I asked about is how they did some tasks related to our project (feasibility, planning, ideas about the job market, surveys to know how to make our project hit the market well). I also asked them for help for my project discussion which was Little Experience, and I got very helpful insights.  CAPM, PMP certificates, Agile methodology was the 3 topics that everybody mentioned when it came to advice for inexperienced people.
The group project for this course has been a unique experience, as everybody had very interesting ideas and ways to approach things which was very helpful to me. They were extremely helpful when I wasn’t sure about some topics concerning the project or preparing for the exams.

Personal Growth:
I will most definitely give more consideration to the business side of software engineering in general now, since I thought it was an uninteresting topic to me and it would not be fitting for what I was looking for. I developed much better skills in planning ahead and estimating things for future projects due to the course’s project and applying them in previous projects. I want to learn more about how these topics are done in the industry and how different they are from what I learned in this course and previous courses.

